and the Lord spoke to Moses speak to
Aaron and his sons that they separate
themselves from the holy things of the
children of Israel and that they do not
profane my Holy Name by what they
dedicate to me I am the Lord say to them
whoever of all your descendants
throughout your generations who goes
near the holy things which the children
of Israel dedicate to the Lord while he
has uncleanness upon them that person
shall be cut off from my presence I am
the Lord whatever man of the descendants
of Aaron who is a leper or has a
discharge shall not eat the holy
offerings until he is clean and whoever
touches anything made unclean by a
corpse or a man who has had an emission
of semen or whoever touches any creeping
thing by which he would be made unclean
or any person by whom he would become
unclean whatever his uncleanness may be
the person who was touched any such
thing shall be unclean until evening and
shall not eat the holy offerings unless
he washes his body with water and when
the Sun Goes Down he shall be clean and
afterward he may eat the holy offerings
because it is his food whatever dies
naturally or is torn by beasts he shall
not eat to defile himself with it I am
the Lord
they shall therefore keep my ordinance
lest they bear sin for it and die
thereby if they profane it I the Lord
sanctify them no outsider shall eat the
holy offering one who dwells with the
priest or a hired servant shall not eat
the holy thing but if the priest dies a
person with his money he may eat it and
one who is born in his house may eat his
food if the priests daughter is married
to an outsider she may not eat of the
holy offerings but if the priests
daughter is a widowed or divorced and
has no child and has returned to her
father's house as in her youth she may
eat her father's food but no outsider
shall eat it and if a man eats the holy
offering unintentionally then he shall
restore a holy offering to the priest
and add one-fifth to it they shall not
profane the holy offerings of the
children of Israel which they offer to
the Lord or allow them to bear the guilt
of trespass when they eat their holy
offerings for I the Lord sanctified
and the Lord spoke to Moses speak to
Aaron and his sons and to all the
children of Israel and say to them
whatever man of the house of Israel or
of the strangers in Israel who offers
his sacrifice for any of his vows or for
any of his free will offerings which
they offer to the Lord as a burnt
offering you shall offer of your own
free will a male without blemish from
the cattle from the sheep or from the
goats
whatever has a defect you shall not
offer for it shall not be acceptable on
your behalf
and whoever offers the sacrifice of a
peace offering to the Lord to fulfill
his vow or a free will offering from the
cattle or the sheep it must be perfect
to be accepted there shall be no defect
in it those that are blind or broken or
maimed or have an ulcer or eczema or
scabs you shall not offer to the Lord
nor make an offering by fire of them on
the altar to the Lord either a bull or a
lamb that has any limb too long or too
short you may offer as a free will
offering but for a vow it shall not be
accepted you shall not offer to the Lord
what is bruised or crushed or torn or
cut nor shall you make any offering of
them in your land nor from a foreigners
hand shall you offer any of these as the
bread of your God because their
corruption is in them and defects are in
them they shall not be accepted on your
behalf and the Lord spoke to Moses when
a bull or a sheep or a goat is born it
shall be seven days with its mother and
from the eighth day and thereafter it
shall be accepted as an offering made by
fire to the Lord whether it is a cow or
you do not kill both her and her young
on the same day and when you offer a
sacrifice of Thanksgiving to the Lord
offer it of your own free will on the
same day it shall be eaten you shall
leave none of it until morning I am the
Lord therefore you shall keep my
Commandments and perform them I am
you shall not profane my holy name but I
will be hallowed among the children of
Israel I am the lord who sanctifies you
who brought you out of the land of Egypt
to be your God
I am the Lord
you